
July 2020 
 1 July – 
 Following the reintroduction of stricter lockdown measures in Leicester, a number of local councils take to social media in an attempt to dispel false rumours that local lockdowns are imminent in their areas. 
 A report by  Public Health England  concludes that there was no obvious source for the spike in COVID-19 cases in Leicester. 
 2 July – Education Secretary  Gavin Williamson  announces the UK government's safety plans for getting schools in England fully operational in time for September. The plans include keeping classes and whole years separate in  bubbles , and providing schools with home test kits to provide to families of children who develop symptoms. Mobile testing units will also be deployed to schools in an instance of a COVID-19 case being confirmed. 
 3 July – 
 The UK government publishes a list of 59 countries for which quarantine will not apply when arriving back in England as from 10 July. They include Greece, France, Belgium and Spain, but Portugal and the United States are among those not on the list. These changes do not apply to Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland, where quarantine restrictions remain in place for all arrivals from outside the UK. 
 The UK government rushes  The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (Leicester) Regulations 2020  through parliament to give police the powers to enforce lockdown restrictions in Leicester as from 4 July. 
 Public Health England starts including  pillar 1  and  pillar 2  cases for local authorities in England, an adjustment expected to show an apparent rise in cases in many places. 
 On the eve of the latest easing of lockdown restrictions for England, Prime Minister  Boris Johnson  describes the changes as the  biggest step yet on the road to recovery , and warns the public not to let reopening businesses down by ignoring social distancing rules. He also said that local lockdown measures rather than national restrictions may be imposed to control the virus. 
 Boris Johnson announces that recreational cricket can resume in England from 11 July. 
 4 July – 
 The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (No. 2) (England) Regulations 2020  come into force in England, replacing and relaxing the previous  Lockdown Regulations  (SI 350), and giving the Secretary of State powers to make declarations restricting access to public outdoor places.  Leicester  is excluded from the relaxations due to its high rate of COVID-19, with more stringent regulations in force. 
 Re-opening  hairdressing salons  announce a variety of safety measures, including the need for customers to book online, to wait outside for the appointment, and to wear a face covering. Hairdresser in some salons will wear protective equipment, and alternate workstations will remain unused. Some will cease to offer dry cuts. 
 5 July – 
 In an interview with the BBC,  Sir Simon Stevens , the Chief Executive of  NHS England , says that COVID-19 has shone a  very harsh spotlight  on the  resilience  of the care system, and that adequate plans to fund social care should be in place within a year. 
 The UK government announces new quarantine exemption rules for participants in major sporting events, as well as film and television productions, allowing them to resume. The rules apply to England, where participants will need to work in a controlled environment and be tested for COVID-19. 
 6 July – As concerns about increasing unemployment grow, the UK government announces a  111m scheme to help firms in England provide an extra 30,000 trainee places   21m will be provided to fund similar schemes in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. 
 7 July – Three pubs in Yorkshire, Hampshire and Somerset that reopened on 4 July close again after customers tested positive for COVID-19. 
 8 July –  Hillingdon Hospital  in  Uxbridge  closes its Accident and Emergency Department due to an outbreak of COVID-19, while 70 members of staff at the hospital go into self-isolation. 
 9 July – 
 Two sets of data are released that show the number of cases of COVID-19 are falling in England   Office for National Statistics  figures estimate one in 3,900 people have the virus, down from one in 2,200 the previous week, while  Public Health England  figures indicate that cases fell by 25  in the week to 5 July. 
 Culture Secretary  Oliver Dowden  announces that swimming pools, gyms, grassroots sport, close contact businesses and outdoor theatre can return in England with the following programme: Outdoor pools to reopen from 11 July  grassroots sport to resume from the weekend of 11 July, beginning with cricket  outdoor theatre to resume from 11 July  beauticians, tattooists, spas, tanning salons and other close contact services to reopen from 13 July  subject to some restrictions  and indoor gyms, swimming pools and sports facilities to reopen from 25 July. In addition, a small pilot of indoor performances with socially distanced audiences will take place to assess the best way to restart them. 
 10 July – 
 As the wearing of face coverings becomes mandatory in shops in Scotland, the UK Government considers whether to introduce the same rule for shops in England. The Prime Minister  is seen in public wearing one. 
 Bosses at the  Birmingham Repertory Theatre , one of the UK's leading production theatres, warn that the theatre is at risk of losing 47 of its staff members (about 40  of its workforce), and is in danger of closing because of the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
 11 July – 
 Parts of  The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (No. 2) (England) (Amendment) Regulations 2020  come into effect, allowing outdoor swimming pools and water parks to re-open. Operators of outdoor swimming pools, many of them community groups and charities, criticise the UK government's timing, citing a lack of preparation time that has made a short summer season  unviable . 
 Belgium includes Leicester on its  red zone  list, meaning anyone who has recently visited the city will be required to quarantine for 14 days on arrival in Belgium. 
 12 July – 
 Michael Gove , the  Minister for the Cabinet Office , says he does not believe it should be compulsory to wear face coverings in shops in England, but to do so is  basic good manners . 
 73 workers at a farm in  Herefordshire  have tested positive for COVID-19, requiring the rest of the farm's 200 or so workers to self-isolate. 
 13 July – 
 The remainder of  The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (No. 2) (England) (Amendment) Regulations 2020  comes into effect, allowing the re-opening of nail bars and salons, tanning booths and salons, spas and beauty salons, massage parlours, tattoo parlours, and body and skin piercing services. 
 The Prime Minister says that people  should be wearing  face coverings in shops in England, and the UK government will decide in the next few days whether  tools of enforcement  are required to ensure that they do. 
 14 July – 
 The UK government announces that the wearing of face coverings will become compulsory in shops and supermarkets in England from 24 July. Those who fail to do so will face a fine of up to  100. Health Secretary  Matt Hancock  says the move will  give people more confidence to shop safely and enhance protections for those who work in shops . 
 In a bid to avoid a full Leicester-style lockdown, the unitary authority of  Blackburn with Darwen  introduces a series of tighter measures that must be observed for the next month following a spike in COVID-19 cases in the area. These include tighter limits on visitors from another household, and a recommendation to bump elbows rather than hugs or shaking hands. 
 A piece by the street artist  Banksy  appears on a London Underground train, encouraging people to wear face coverings.  The artwork, titled  If You Don't Mask, You Don't Get , is subsequently removed by cleaners who were unaware of the identity of its creator. 
 15 July – Health Secretary  Matt Hancock  confirms there are no plans to make the wearing of face coverings compulsory for office workers in England. 
 16 July – Education Secretary  Gavin Williamson  announces plans for an emergency loans scheme for universities in England in danger of bankruptcy because of the financial impact of the pandemic. The announcement comes after a report by the  Institute of Fiscal Studies  identified 13 unnamed universities facing financial difficulties. 
 The  Borough of Pendle  in Lancashire introduces extra social distancing precautions to help stem a local rise in COVID-19 cases and avoid full lockdown. 
 Health Secretary  Matt Hancock  announces that restrictions relating to schools and nurseries in Leicester will be lifted from 24 July after a fall in cases in the city. But bars and restaurants will remain closed, and restrictions on gatherings and visitors will continue. 
 17 July – 
 The Prime Minister announces a further easing of lockdown restrictions for England, with plans for a  significant return to normality  by Christmas. The new guidelines allow people to use public transport for non-essential journeys with immediate effect, while employers will have more discretion over their work places from 1 August.  From 18 July, local authorities will have the power to enforce local shutdowns. 
 Johnson announces an extra  3bn for the  NHS in England  to help prepare for a possible second wave of COVID-19 over the coming winter. 
 Johnson announces a pilot scheme for a return to spectator sports, with a view to a full return by 1 October. The  2020 World Snooker Championship  and the  Glorious Goodwood Festival  are among the first two sporting events to be part of the pilot.  A pilot scheme is also announced for a return to indoor performances with socially distanced audiences at theatres, music and performance venues, with a view to a full return in August. 
 Health Secretary  Matt Hancock  calls for a review of the way COVID-19 deaths are recorded in England after  Public Health England  confirms it records deaths as COVID related even if the death occurs several months after someone has tested positive for the virus  the other Home Nations do not record a death as COVID related if it occurs more than 28 days after a positive test. 
 Rochdale  introduces extra social distancing precautions to avoid full lockdown following a rise in COVID-19 cases in the area. 
 18 July – 
 The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) (No. 3) Regulations 2020  come into force, giving local authorities in England new powers to close shops and outdoor public spaces, and to cancel events in order to control COVID-19. 
 A pub in Manchester becomes one of the first venues to stage a live gig since as lockdown measures continue to be eased. 
 19 July – Concerns are raised about England's contact-tracing system as it emerges that at least 50  of the people identified as having had close contact with someone in Blackburn who has tested positive for COVID-19 have not been contacted. 
 20 July – Figures released by  Public Health England  show that  Blackburn with Darwen  is overtaking  Leicester  as England's COVID-19 hotspot, with 79.2 cases per 100,000 in the week up to 17 July. Cases have almost doubled from 63 to 118 in a week. 
 22 July – 
 The UK government permits visits to care homes to resume in England, but recommends one constant visitor per resident, and gives local authorities and public health directors responsibility for giving the go-ahead to individual homes. 
 Driving tests resume in England. 
 23 July – 
 On the eve of the introduction of new regulations for the wearing of face coverings in England, the UK Government releases full guidelines on when and where they should be worn. 
 A network of COVID walk-in test centres will be established throughout England, with a view to being fully operational by the end of October. 
 Residents in  Blackburn  and  Luton  are told the latest round of lockdown easing will not be allowed in those towns due to a high number of COVID-19 cases. 
 24 July – 
 The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Wearing of Face Coverings in a Relevant Place) (England) Regulations 2020  come into force, requiring members of the public to wear a face covering in most indoor shops, shopping centres, banks, post offices and public transport hubs. They must also be worn by anyone buying takeaway food or drink from an outlet, but may be removed by those eating in. Children under 11, and people with disabilities or certain health conditions that would make the wearing of a face covering difficult are exempt.  The new regulations are similar to  The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Wearing of Face Coverings on Public Transport) (England) Regulations 2020 , which came into force on 15 June 2020. 
 The Football Association confirms that the 2020–21 English Premier League and Football League season will begin on 12 September. 
 The list of countries from where travellers do not have to quarantine when arriving in England is updated, adding Estonia, Latvia, Slovakia, Slovenia and St Vincent and the Grenadines  travellers from Portugal must still isolate for 14 days. 
 The UK government announces that 30 million people in England will be offered the flu vaccine over the coming winter. 
 It is reported that, as a result of the pandemic and job losses, almost 1,000 people have applied to a restaurant in Manchester advertising a vacancy for a receptionist. 
 25 July – 
 With the coming into force of  The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (No. 2) (England) (Amendment) (No. 2) Regulations 2020 , indoor gyms, swimming pools and other indoor sports facilities begin to reopen. 
 Public Health England warns that being obese and overweight puts people at greater risk of severe illness or death as a result of COVID-19. 
 The UK government announces  2.25m worth of emergency funding for small music venues in England, which will be shared by 150 venues. 
 Following a rise in COVID-19 cases in Spain, and concerns of a second wave, the UK Government confirms that travellers returning to England from Spain will be required to quarantine for 14 days from 26 July. 
 26 July – 
 21 people have tested positive for COVID-19 at a caravan park in  Craven Arms , Shropshire, with health experts warning the number of cases will rise. 
 Westminster Abbey  has warned it is set to make 20  of its staff redundant after losing as much as  12m in tourist revenue because of the lockdown. 
 27 July – A concrete-making plant involved in the construction of the  Hinkley Point  nuclear processing plant is closed by owners  Balfour Beatty  following an outbreak of COVID-19 at the site. 
 28 July – 
 Oldham  introduces tougher restrictions to curb the virus after a spike in cases  residents are asked to refrain from having social visitors, keep two metres apart when outside, and those who are shielding are asked to continue to do so until 14 August, while care homes will not relax restrictions. 
 Folk musician  Frank Turner  plays a gig to an audience of 200 at London's  Clapham Grand  where safety measures are trialled for the return of live music. But the venue's manager says the format is not economically viable as it would not allow venues to make enough money to cover operating costs. 
 30 July – 
 Office for National Statistics  figures indicate that England had the highest number of excess deaths in Europe between the end of February and mid-June, and had the second highest peak in number of deaths behind Spain. 
 Restrictions are placed on  Greater Manchester , and parts of East  Lancashire  and  Yorkshire  prohibiting separate households from meeting indoors following an  increasing rate of transmission  in those areas caused by people failing to adhere to social distancing rules. The restrictions take effect from midnight. 
 31 July – 
 Prime Minister  Boris Johnson  postpones some lockdown easing measures scheduled to begin on 1 August for two weeks amid concerns about rising COVID-19 cases. Bowling alleys and casinos will remain closed until 15 August, while wedding receptions of up to 30 people are also moved back to that date. Trials of spectator sporting events are also paused. From 8 August the wearing of face coverings in more indoor settings, such as cinemas and places of worship will become mandatory. 
 The ONS household survey indicates COVID-19 cases in England are rising again, with an increase from 2,800 to 4,200 daily cases in the week of 20–26 July. 
 Pubs, restaurants and hairdressers in Leicester are given permission to reopen from Monday 3 August. 
August 2020 
 1 August – 
 The shielding programme is paused for England and Scotland, but will continue for the areas where extra precautions have been introduced. 
 Professor Graham Medley, one of the scientists advising the government, suggests a  trade-off  may be required to allow schools to reopen in England, whereby pubs or  other facilities  have to close. 
 Local authorities warn of the difficulty of enforcing social distancing rules on beaches after a spell of hot weather results in an influx of people to the coast. 
 2 August – 
 A major incident is declared in  Greater Manchester  after rises in coronavirus infection rates. 
 Housing Minister Robert Jenrick says that reopening schools in England for September is an  absolute priority  for the government. 
 3 August – Restaurants, pubs and hairdressers in Leicester are allowed to reopen as lockdown restrictions are eased in the city. 
 5 August – 
 Anne Longfield , England's children's commissioner, says that schools should be the  first to open, last to close  in any future lockdown scenario, because children pose a lesser risk of spreading COVID-19. 
 Tahir Malik  resigns as  mayor of Luton  for breaching lockdown restrictions after being pictured at a garden party with two other councillors. 
 Figures released by  Transport for London  indicate its staff caught 53,900 people not wearing a mask on its buses between 4 July and 2 August. 
 6 August – 
 50 million face masks bought by the UK government for use by NHS England in April will not be used due to safety concerns, officials confirm. the masks, which fasten rather than having head loops do not fit tightly enough. 
 Officials state that a second attempt at creating a contact-tracing app for England has almost reached the testing phase. 
 7 August – Lockdown measures are reintroduced in  Preston, Lancashire , effective from midnight and following a spike in COVID-19 cases there. They include banning households from meeting up with each other at home. 
 8 August – 
 The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Wearing of Face Coverings in a Relevant Place) (England) (Amendment) Regulations 2020  come into effect, extending the range of indoor locations where a face covering has to be worn to include indoor places of worship, community centres, crematoria and burial ground chapels, public areas in hotels, public halls including concert and exhibition halls, cinemas, museums, galleries, aquariums, indoor zoos and visitor farms, indoor parts of tourist, heritage or cultural sites, bingo halls, and public libraries. 
 The rise in COVID cases among those under 30 in the Preston area prompts authorities to launch the  Don't kill Granny  slogan. 
 9 August – 
 Writing in  The Mail on Sunday , Prime Minister Boris Johnson says there is a  moral duty  to get all children in England back to school in September. 
 Andy Burnham , the  Mayor of Greater Manchester , warns that pubs may have to close to allow schools to reopen safely if England's  NHS Test and Trace  is not  fixed urgently . His comments come after data suggests a 53  local success rate in tracing those who have had contact with a person testing positive for COVID-19. 
 10 August – The UK government announces that  NHS Test and Trace  will shrink its contact tracers from 18,000 to 12,000 by the end of August, with the remainder working in teams alongside local public health officials in the community, where they will visit those who have come into contact with an infected person. The strategy has been deployed successfully in places like Blackburn and Luton. 
 12 August – Education Secretary  Gavin Williamson  apologises to every school pupil for  the disruption that they've had to suffer  because of the pandemic, and says the best thing that can happen now is for them all to return to school. 
 13 August – 
 England's revamped contact-tracing app begins public trials,  with residents of the  Isle of Wight , the  London Borough of Newham , and NHS volunteer responders being the first to test it. 
 Workers at a sandwich factory in Northampton are self-isolating following an outbreak of COVID-19 at the plant. 
 A Level results are published. In England, 36  of results are lower than teachers predicted, with 3  being two grades lower. 
 Prime Minister Boris Johnson announces a further easing of lockdown measures for England from 15 August, with a greater range of beauty treatments, indoor gigs and wedding receptions of up to 30 permitted, as well as the reopening of bowling alleys, casinos and soft play centres. Potential fines for refusing to wear a mask and the organisers or illegal raves are also to be increased. 
 14 August – 
 Office for National Statistics  figures indicate cases of COVID-19 appear to have stabilised in England following a small increase in July, and despite local clusters of cases. The latest statistics show an estimated 1 in 1,900 in England, or 28,300 people, have the virus. 
 Government figures indicate the R number to be between 0.8 and 1 in England, but members of the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) that advises the government, say they are not confident the number is below 1. 
 The  Department of Health and Social Care  confirms that lockdown restrictions are to remain in Greater Manchester and parts of East Lancashire as cases have not decreased in the area. Restrictions are also to continue in parts of West Yorkshire and Leicester. 
 15 August – 
 Education Secretary Gavin Williamson confirms A Level and GCSE appeals will be free. 
 Liverpool's  Cavern Club , famous for launching the career of  The Beatles , has reported it faces financial ruin because of the COVID-19 pandemic, having lost an estimated  30,000 a week since lockdown began in March. 
 16 August – The  Sunday Telegraph  reports that  Public Health England  is to be replaced by a new organisation tasked with protecting the UK against future pandemics. 101 
 17 August – The UK government announces that A Level and GCSE students in England will have their results based on teachers' assessments following uproar over grades. 102 
 18 August – 
 Health Secretary Matt Hancock announces the creation of the  National Institute for Health Protection  to replace  Public Health England  Baroness Dido Harding is appointed as its chair. 103 
 Lockdown measures are partially eased in Leicester, allowing beauty salons and outdoor pools to reopen from the following day. 104 
 19 August – 
 Birmingham's Director of Public Health bans  non-essential  visits to care homes following a rise of COVID-19 cases in the city. 105 
 The UK government announces plans to expand the Office for National Statistics' Infection Survey, which tests people fortnightly for COVID-19  tests will increase from 28,000 people in England to 150,000 by October. 106 
 20 August – 
 GCSE results are published, with grades now based on teachers' assessments  78.8  of papers rated grade 4 or above, compared to 69.9  in 2019. 107 
 The UK government lifts the cap on the number of medical, dentistry, veterinary and teaching students enrolling on courses, and agrees targeted extra funding, while universities in England will offer students their first choice of course, though many will have to defer for a year. 108 
 21 August – 
 Stricter restrictions are announced for residents in Oldham, Pendle and Blackburn from midnight on 22 August, preventing them from socialising with anyone outside their household, but workplaces, childcare facilities and businesses, including restaurants and pubs, are to remain open. 109 
 Restrictions are removed from Wigan, Rossendale and Darwen, while Birmingham is added to the government's watchlist as an  area of enhanced support . Northampton becomes an  area of intervention . 110 
 Birmingham City Council  introduces a number of voluntary measures aimed at preventing a full  local lockdown  in the city, including a halt on further sectors reopening, advice to wear face coverings in taxi cabs, limitations on gatherings of over 30 people except for acts of worship, and restricting the number of people who can meet up with another household to two. 111 
 The ban on evictions due to expire on 23 August is extended until 20 September amid concerns that thousands of people could be made homeless. 112 
 The government appoints senior civil servant  Susan Acland-Hood  to the Department for Education as a second permanent secretary for six weeks to help deal with the response to the A Levels controversy. 113 
 22 August – 
 Council leaders in the north west urge the government to provide clarity on new restrictions amid concerns it is unclear how they will be implemented and policed. 114 
 A further  1.1m of government funding (as part of the  Culture Recovery Fund ) is announced to help small music venues. 115 
 23 August – Police in Birmingham report that a total of 70 unlicensed social gatherings, including house and street parties, were disrupted overnight. 116 
 24 August –  Greater Manchester Police  reveal they have broken up 126 illegal gatherings over the preceding weekend, including a child's tenth birthday party. Responding to criticism of the police for their actions over the party, Chief Constable  Ian Hopkins  says it was not a  jelly and ice cream  event and saw  mostly adults celebrating . 117 
 25 August – 
 Sally Collier  resigns as head of  Ofqual  following the exam grades controversy. 118 
 After face coverings are made compulsory for students in communal areas of schools in Scotland, pressure grows on the UK government to update the guidelines for wearing face coverings at schools in England. 119  The government subsequently issues new guidelines requiring pupils at schools in areas subject to lockdown restrictions to wear face coverings in corridors and other communal areas. 119 
 26 August –  Birmingham City Council  is given the authority to close pubs and restaurants that fail to comply with COVID-19 regulations. 120 
 27 August – Birmingham City Council announces plans to launch an enhanced test and trace system by mid-September in a bid to avoid full lockdown. 121 
 28 August – 
 Health Secretary Matt Hancock announces that restrictions will be eased from 2 September in Bolton, Stockport, Trafford, Burnley, Hyndburn and parts of Bradford, Calderdale and Kirklees, allowing households to mix again  restrictions in Leicester will be reviewed again on 11 September. 122 
 The Office for National Statistics weekly household survey indicated cases of COVID-19 are levelling off in England following a slight increase in July  it estimated there were 2,200 cases per day in the week up to 20 August. 123 
 29 August – 
 Government guidelines on COVID-19 in schools suggest that an entire bubble would be sent home to isolate for fourteen days in the event of a single case being confirmed at a school, presenting the possibility that an entire school year could be sent home in such an instance. Schools in areas where COVID cases are high may also teach pupils on a rota basis, with groups being sent home alternately for two weeks. 124 
 The first football match with spectators takes place in Brighton, with 2,500 people allowed in to watch a pre-season friendly between  Chelsea  and  Brighton . 125 
 Women's football makes a return for the first time since lockdown, with a Community Shield match between  Chelsea  and  Manchester City , the first Women's Community Shield to be held since 2008. 126 127 
 30 August – 
 In an open letter to parents, Education Secretary Gavin Williamson warns those who do not send their children back to school risk putting a  huge dent in their future life chances . 128 
 The activist  Piers Corbyn  has been fined  10,000 for organising an anti-lockdown rally in Trafalgar Square, London. 129 
 31 August – The opposition  Labour Party  urges the UK government to delay 2021's GCSE and A Level exams until mid-summer to help deal with teaching time lost because of lockdown. 130 
September 2020 
 1 September – 
 Education minister  Nick Gibb  confirms the government will make a decision  very soon  about whether to delay school exams in 2021. 131 
 Research conducted by the  National Foundation for Educational Research  suggests that schoolchildren are three months behind in their studies following lockdown, with boys and poorer pupils the most affected. 132 
 A trial begins in Blackburn with Darwen, Pendle, and Oldham of payments to those on low incomes who are asked to self-isolate by NHS Test and Trace. Up to  182 will be paid to people receiving Universal Credit or Working Tax Credit, who are either employed and unable to work from home, or self-employed and unable to work without social contact. 133 
 2 September – 
 Plans to ease lockdown restrictions in Bolton and Trafford are scrapped following a rise in COVID-19 cases in the areas, while Mayor of Greater Manchester  Andy Burnham  urges the rest of Greater Manchester to  continue to minimise mixing in the home . 134 
 England's exam regulator,  Ofqual , says it warned the government there could be widespread dissatisfaction with its emergency grading system, and that an alternative solution such as delaying exams would have been better. 135 
 4 September – 
 Councillors in  Leeds , West Yorkshire, urge residents to make a  collective effort  to avoid local lockdown measures after the seven day average of COVID-19 cases in the city rise to 29.4 cases per 100,000. 136  Leeds is also added to  Public Health England 's watchlist as an area of concern. 137 
 Corby ,  Kettering ,  South Tyneside  and  Middlesbrough  are also added to the list as areas of concern, while  Northampton  is downgraded from an area of intervention to an area of enhanced concern.  Rossendale  and  Norfolk  are also listed as areas of enhanced concern. 138 139 
 The Office for National Statistics household survey suggests COVID-19 cases remained unchanged in England for the week up to 25 August, despite local spikes in cases. 140 
 5 September – 
 People in  Bolton  are asked to limit their use of public transport to essential journeys and avoid indoor or outdoor mixing with people outside their support bubbles after COVID-19 cases soar to 99 in 100,000 in a week, the highest rate in England. 141 
 Lawyers express their concern about the delay in court cases in England and Wales, with some 9,000 having been delayed since the start of lockdown, and warn that measures put in place to speed up cases may not be effective. 142 
 7 September – 
 The UK government announces that travellers arriving from the Greek islands of  Lesvos ,  Tinos ,  Serifos ,  Mykonos ,  Santorini ,  Crete  and  Zakynthos  will be required to quarantine from 4am on 9 September. 143 
 Manchester City  footballers  Riyad Mahrez  and  Aymeric Laporte  test positive for COVID-19 and are required to self-isolate. 144 
 England  footballers  Phil Foden  and  Mason Greenwood  are sent home from training in Iceland following a breach of COVID-19 rules. 145 
 8 September – 
 Following a rise in COVID-19 cases, social gatherings of more than six people are made illegal from 14 September, with the exception of workplaces, schools, COVID secure weddings and funerals, and organised team sports. 146 
 Businesses including soft play centres, bowling alleys and casinos are permitted to reopen in Greater Manchester, Lancashire and West Yorkshire. 147 
 Lockdown measures are further tightened in Bolton after COVID-19 cases increase to 120 in every 100,000. The measures include limiting food outlets to takeaway meals only, and a curfew requiring businesses to close between 22:00 and 05:00. Health Secretary Matt Hancock blames socialising by people in their 20s and 30s for the increase. 148 
 COVID-19 cases in Birmingham have increased to 62.2 per 100,000, with local officials working to avoid lockdown measures being implemented. 149 
 Sarah-Jane Marsh, a director of England's test and trace programme, issues an apology for problems with the system, explaining it is laboratories rather than the testing sites that are the  critical pinch-point . 150 
 9 September – 
 The new rules regarding social gatherings are further elaborated upon by Prime Minister Boris Johnson in a government press conference, alongside details of new legal requirements for data gathering on behalf of venues, social distancing  martials  to enforce restrictions, and a  moonshot  plan to further control the virus with greatly expanded mass virus testing. 151 
 The  St Leger  meeting opens at  Doncaster Racecourse  with spectators, but health officials order the racecourse to hold the meeting behind closed doors from 10 September on public health grounds. 152 
 Health Secretary Matt Hancock suggests people should avoid the  inappropriate  use of COVID tests if they do not have symptoms, saying it makes getting a test more difficult for those who do have symptoms. 153 
 The organisers of Birmingham's  German Market  have cancelled the 2020 event because of the COVID-19 pandemic. 154 
 Solihull Metropolitan Borough Council  suspends care home visits in  Solihull  as COVID-19 cases in the town reach 50 per 100,000  officials will also make extra visits to bars, restaurants and pubs to ensure they are complying with COVID restrictions. 155 
 10 September – 
 Scientists and health experts express their doubt about Boris Johnson's  Operation Moonshot  plans to test several million people daily for COVID-19 with a quick turnaround, saying that the laboratory capacity is not there, while the  British Medical Journal  quotes a leaked document that claims the process would cost  100bn. 156 
 Health Secretary Matt Hancock says the rules limiting social gatherings to no more than six people will not be kept in place  any longer than we have to . 157 
 Guidance for universities in England says that they should only switch to full online learning as a last resort if there is a COVID-19 outbreak in the local area. 158 
 Travellers returning to England from the Portuguese mainland,  Hungary ,  French Polynesia  and  R union  from 12 September must self-isolate for two weeks  those returning from  Sweden  no longer need to self-isolate. 159 
 Hospital waiting lists in England have increased because of the pandemic, figures show, with the volume of patients waiting for treatment at their highest since records began in 2007. Two million patients have waited 18 weeks or longer for treatment, while 83,000 have waited for more than a year. 160 
 Two boat shows scheduled for Southampton the following day – BOATS2020, and the smaller sailing show MDL Ocean Village – are cancelled at short notice by public health officials because of fears over the COVID-19 pandemic. 161 
 11 September – Households in  Birmingham  and neighbouring  Solihull  and  Sandwell  are banned from mixing from 15 September as COVID-19 cases in Birmingham reach 90.3 per 100,000, but six people from more than one household can still visit pubs, restaurants and bars, and shops remain open. 162 
 12 September – 
 Cabinet Office Minister  Michael Gove  confirms that children in England will be included in new  rule of six  socialising restrictions  Scotland and Wales have not included children under the age of 12 in the new rules. 163 
 Anti-lockdown protesters gather in  Birmingham City Centre  to demonstrate against the introduction of tighter restrictions in the area. 164 
 The  2020–21 English football season  begins. 165 
 13 September – The UK government writes to care home providers in England to warn them of a rise in COVID-19 cases in the sector  cases have risen among staff, but there are fears they could spread to residents. 166 
 14 September – 
 The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (No. 2) (England) (Amendment) (No. 4) Regulations 2020 came into force at 12.01 a.m. Unless one of the exceptions applies, the statutory instrument provides authority to limit the number of persons in a gathering to no more than six  hence the  rule of six . 167 168 
 NHS England  writes to GPs surgeries to advise them to make patients aware that face-to-face appointments with a doctor can be made if required  at least half of the 102 million appointments made between March and July are estimated to have been online or via telephone. 169 
 Headteachers warn that schools are being impacted by delays in COVID tests for teachers. 170 
 15 September – 
 Health Secretary  Matt Hancock  tells the House of Commons that England's COVID-19 testing system has faced an  enormous challenge  after a  sharp rise  in the demand for tests, but that the issue will be resolved in a  matter of weeks . 171 
 The first official figures for school attendance published since the beginning of the autumn term show that 88  of pupils have returned to the classroom. 172 
 16 September – 
 Secretary of State for Justice  Robert Buckland  says that resolving delays with testing is  the number one issue , with plans to publish a strategy within days that will prioritise NHS facilities and care homes, as well as schools. 173  Prime Minister Boris Johnson says the system is dealing with a  colossal spike  in demand, and that an  action plan  for care homes will be released shortly. 174 
 A number of local authorities have said that the introduction of  COVID marshals , announced by Prime Minister Boris Johnson as a way to enforce social distancing, rules on gatherings and the wearing of face coverings, is  unlikely  and  almost impossible . 175 
 Bolton NHS Trust  urges people who are not seriously ill to avoid visiting accident and emergency departments after 100 people turned up at a local hospital asking for COVID-19 tests. 176 
 17 September – 
 Following a rise in COVID-19 cases in the north east, local lockdown measures are announced for  Newcastle-upon-Tyne ,  Gateshead ,  Sunderland ,  Northumberland ,  South Tyneside ,  North Tyneside  and  County Durham , beginning from midnight. Households are banned from mixing, while pubs, bars and restaurants are only permitted to offer table service  they must close between 22:00 and 05:00. 177 
 Thailand and Singapore are added to the quarantine exemption list, meaning travellers arriving from there will no longer need to self-isolate. Slovenia and Guadeloupe are removed. 178 
 18 September – 
 The UK government says it is considering a short period of tighter restrictions for England to slow the spread of COVID-19  this would see hospitality businesses closing for a few weeks. 179 
 Collection of customer / visitor contact details  becomes a legal requirement  with fixed penalties, applying to operators of many types of business and community centres. 180 
 Tighter restrictions are announced for  Lancashire  (excluding  Blackpool ),  Merseyside ,  Warrington ,  Halton ,  Wolverhampton ,  Oadby ,  Wigston , parts of  Bradford ,  Kirklees  and  Calderdale , beginning on 22 September. Households are banned from mixing, hospitality businesses can offer table service only and must close between 22:00 and 05:00. Residents are advised only to use public transport when essential. 181 
 Mayor of London   Sadiq Khan  says measures to curb the spread of the virus in London are becoming  increasingly likely . 182 
 The Office for National Statistics says that new COVID-19 cases may have reached 6,000 a day in England, with a clear rise in cases in those under the age of 35. 183 
 The  New Year's Eve  fireworks display in London is cancelled because of the COVID-19 pandemic. 184 
 19 September – Up to 1,000 fans are allowed to attend eight  English Football League  matches as part of the government's crowd pilot scheme aimed at reopening spectator sport. 185 
 20 September – 
 Health Secretary  Matt Hancock  warns people in England that tougher COVID-19 restrictions will follow if they do not follow the rules. 186 
 As Lancashire prepares for tighter restrictions from 22 September, tourists have descended on  Blackpool  for a  last blast  at the coastal resort, despite police urging them not to do so. 187 
 Labour party leader  Sir Keir Starmer  calls on Prime Minister  Boris Johnson  to apologise for the  near collapse  of the government's test and trace system. 188 
 21 September – 
 Health Secretary  Matt Hancock  announces that people in areas subject to tighter COVID-19 restrictions are to be allowed to look after children from other households. 189 
 The UK government announces that pubs and restaurants in England must close at 22:00 from Thursday 24 September and be restricted to table service only by law, with the measures to be outlined by Prime Minister Boris Johnson the following day. 190 
 22 September – 
 Prime Minister  Boris Johnson  tells the House of Commons the United Kingdom has reached  a perilous turning point  as he announces new restrictions for England that could last for as long as six months. These include a requirement that all shop staff wear face coverings, and a limit on weddings to fifteen people. Initial fines for rule breaking are increased from  100 to  200. 191  People are also told to work from home if they can. 192 
 Johnson confirms that plans for spectator sporting events to resume from 1 October will not go ahead. 193 
 A report into the COVID response implemented by  Erlestoke Prison  finds that it made the prison  less safe  and  less purposeful . 194 
 23 September – 
 Foreign Secretary  Dominic Raab  defends new COVID-19 measures following criticism from some scientists who feel they do not to far enough, describing them as  balanced, targeted and proportionate . 195 
 An  English Premier League  match between  Liverpool  and  Arsenal  is brought forward by fifteen minutes to accommodate for the 10pm pubs curfew, with all future Premiership matches being timed to fit in with the new regulations. 196 
 Couples who live separately are now permitted to meet up for sex, but casual sex is still banned. 197 
 24 September – The second version of the  NHS contact-tracing app  is made available for download by the public in England and Wales. 198 
 25 September – 
 Different households in  Leeds ,  West Yorkshire  are prevented from mixing together in houses and gardens to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the city, the new rules becoming effective from midnight. 199 
 London is placed on the national coronavirus watchlist following a rise in cases there. 200 201 
 1,700 students at  Manchester Metropolitan University  are told to self-isolate for 14 days after 99 tested positive for COVID-19. 202 
 The  Department of Health and Social Care  announces that emails and SMS messages will be sent to people in England informing them how to download the  NHS COVID-19  contact-tracing app. 203 
 26 September – 
 Steve Chalke , founder of the  Oasis Trust  which operates 53 schools in England, calls on the  pupil premium  that helps to educate the poorest children should be trebled because the gap between disadvantaged and non-disadvantaged children  has become a gulf  following lockdown. 204 
 Demand for COVID tests for children in England has tripled through September, with 1  testing positive. 205 
 27 September – In the Birmingham area, 100 military personnel are enlisted to support the  drop and collect  COVID-19 testing programme. 206 
 28 September – 
 The remainder of the regulations ( SI 1029 ) come into force in England, reducing the maximum number who can attend weddings and civil partnership ceremonies and any associated receptions from 30 to 15. 207 
 Refusing to self-isolate in England after being told to self-isolate becomes illegal, with a fine of up to  10,000. The change in the law comes after a government-commissioned survey found that only 18  of people with symptoms went into self-isolation. 208  Fines for employers who penalise employees for self-isolating will also be introduced. 186 
 The Test and Trace Support Payment scheme begins.  500 is available to employed people who are asked to isolate by NHS Test and Trace, if they cannot work at home and are receiving certain state benefits or have a low income. 209 
 Andy Burnham , the  Mayor of Greater Manchester , calls for an  urgent review  of the 10pm pub curfew because it is  doing more harm than good  and  creates an incentive for people to gather in the street or more probably to gather in the home . 210 
 Lockdown measures are further tightened in the North East of England from 30 September to make mixing with other households in any indoor setting illegal and enforceable by fines  the decision comes after COVID-19 cases in the area rise to 100 in 100,000. 211 
 29 September – 
 The  NHS Confederation  warns that the health service faces a  triple whammy  of rising COVID-19 cases, a major backlog in treatment and reduced capacity because of COVID measures over the coming winter. 212 
 The shopworkers' union  USDAW  warns that 10pm pub closures are putting retail workers at greater risk from verbal abuse, violence and COVID infection, because stores that remain open late are attracting people who wish to buy alcohol, something that poses a potential increase in antisocial behaviour. 213 
 Prime Minister Boris Johnson announces a  radical  shake up of adult education in England, with adults who do not possess A Level qualifications offered A Levels or equivalent qualifications in subjects valuable to industry. 214 
 Johnson apologises, saying he  misspoke  after being asked to clarify incoming COVID-19 restrictions for meeting up in the North East of England after a junior minister was unable to do so. Johnson wrongly stated that the rule of six applied in the area, when the restrictions mean households are not permitted to mix in indoor or outdoor settings. 215 
 30 September – 170 people have tested positive for COVID at a pork processing plant in Cornwall. 216 
October 2020 
 1 October – 
 Tighter restrictions are announced for  Liverpool ,  Warrington ,  Hartlepool  and  Middlesbrough , making it illegal for households to mix in any indoor setting, including pubs and restaurants. The changes come into place following a continued spike of COVID-19 cases in those areas, and will remain effective for as long as necessary. 217 
 Doctors in the West Midlands have been told to prepare for a mass COVID vaccination programme from as early as November. 218 
 BBC News  reports that COVID-19 restrictions are to be simplified into a three-tier system following confusion over local rules. 219 
 770 students at the  University of Northumbria  have tested positive for COVID-19, requiring them to self-isolate  79 of them are symptomatic. 220 
 3 October – Tighter restrictions come into force in Liverpool, Hartlepool, Middlesbrough and Warrington. 221 
 4 October – 
 Andy Burnham , the  Mayor of Greater Manchester , warns the north of England faces a  winter of dangerous discontent  if the test and trace system does not improve, and calls for local control over test and trace, a local furlough scheme and better support for local authorities if local lockdown measures are to continue. 222 
 Fallowfield , a suburb of Manchester and home to thousands of students, is now the coronavirus hotspot with the most cases of anywhere in the country. A possible reason for the soaring COVID-19 infection rate is the concentration of student accommodation in the areas around the  University of Manchester ,  Manchester Metropolitan University  and  Salford University  campuses. 223 
 5 October – According to the  Telegraph , a number of  university cities  experiencing significant COVID-19 infection rate increases, such as Leeds, Exeter, Oxford, Sheffield and Manchester, are poised to be put under more stringent restrictions, even local lockdown measures. 224 
 6 October – 
 The number of daily COVID-19 hospital admissions in England increases by 478, the largest daily increase since June. 225 
 Health officials in Nottingham express concerns about a spike in COVID cases in the city, where cases have risen to an average of 384 in every 100,000 over the past seven days. 226 
 In the House of Commons, the UK government wins a vote on retaining the  rule of six  limit on social gatherings by 287 votes to 17. 227 
 London now has an infection rate of more than 1,000 new COVID-19 cases a day, with 16 boroughs reporting more than 60 new cases per 100,000 people. The increase is thought to be partly due to an upsurge in testing. 228 
 7 October – 
 Labour Party leader  Keir Starmer  challenges Prime Minister Boris Johnson to publish the scientific evidence behind the 10pm closing time ahead of a vote on the issue in the House of Commons. 229 
 People in  Nottinghamshire  are asked to avoid mixing with other households indoors amid high rates of COVID-19. 230 
 8 October – 
 After details of possible new restrictions to close pubs and restaurants in the areas of England most affected by COVID-19 appear in newspapers ahead of any announcement by the government, MPs and local leaders seek clarification on the situation. 231 
 Figures released by  NHS England  indicate 111,000 people have been waiting for routine hospital treatment for more than a year, the highest figure since 2008. Almost two million patients have been waiting for more than the target time of 18 weeks. 232 
 30m of funding is announced for local authorities to fund COVID measures, including marshals to ensure rules are followed. Police forces in England and Wales are also given  30m to help with enforcing regulations. 233 
 Data published by  Public Health England  shows Nottingham to have the highest COVID-19 rate in the UK, with 689.1 cases per 100,000. 234 
 The Evening Standard reports that London has had 6,723 new COVID-19 infections within the week ending 4 October 2020, an increase of 58.2  on the previous week. 235 
 9 October – 
 The Imperial College's  React  study shows the rate at which the coronavirus  epidemic  is spreading in the north of England is double the pace of the rest of England with faster infection  doubling times  of 17 days in the North West, 13 days in Yorkshire and the Humber, as opposed to 29 days in England more generally. 236 
 Scientists present findings that nearly 25  of NHS Trust inpatients with COVID-19 acquired the infection after admission to hospital. 237 
 10 October – 
 As the government prepares to introduce new measures to fight COVID-19, leaders in the north of England criticise the level of financial support offered by the Chancellor. Mayor of Greater Manchester  Andy Burnham  says that people will not be surrendered to hardship. 238 239 
 Five people are arrested and a police officer is injured at an anti-lockdown protest in London. 240 
 11 October – 
 Following a decline in the number of people being contacted by  NHS Test and Trace , Communities Secretary  Robert Jenrick  says the government will  fully embrace  local test and trace systems. 241 
 Five Manchester MPs write a letter to the Prime Minister arguing against plans to introduce a three-tier system for COVID-19 restrictions, and saying that pub closures will not stop infection rates rising. 242 243 
 12 October – 
 NHS Nightingale hospitals  in Manchester, Sunderland and Harrogate are told to prepare to take patients. 244 
 It is confirmed that GCSE and A Level exams will go ahead in 2021, but with reduced content on some papers, and with a start date pushed back by three weeks. 245 
 13 October - Figures reveal that the number of secondary schools disrupted by COVID-19 is increasing, with 21  sending pupils home because of the virus. This figure is an increase from 18  in the previous week, and 8  in mid-September. 246 
 14 October - 
 The  COVID-19 tier regulations  come into force, defining three levels of restrictions to be applied as necessary in geographic areas. These replace and revoke the existing  local lockdown regulations . The  Liverpool City Region  is the first to be assigned to the strictest tier. 247 248 
 Footage of people gathering in Liverpool two hours before the new regulations are introduced emerges on social media   Joe Anderson , the  Mayor of Liverpool , criticises those involved in the gathering, saying they  shame our city . 249 
 NHS Hospital Trusts  in Plymouth, Liverpool and Belfast are cancelling planned elective procedures outright or scaling-back surgery due to an upsurge in COVID-19 patients requiring intensive care. 250 
 The  Joint Biosecurity Centre 's Gold Command recommends Greater Manchester and Lancashire be placed under  Tier 3  measures, subject to being signed off by  Number 10 . 251 
 15 October - 
 Health Secretary  Matt Hancock  announces in the  House of Commons  that London, Essex (except Thurrock and Southend), York, North East Derbyshire, Chesterfield,  Erewash ,  Elmbridge , and  Barrow in Furness  will be moved to  Tier 2   High  alert level, restricting different households mixing indoors from midnight on 16 October. 252 
 Mayor of Greater Manchester Andy Burnham and local politicians resist plans to put the area into the highest level 3 tier, citing the impact the move would have on the local economy. 253 
 16 October – 
 Council leaders in Lancashire agree to move the county into tier 3 restrictions from midnight, but unlike the Liverpool City Region gyms will be allowed to remain open. 254 
 In a press conference at 10 Downing Street, Prime Minister Boris Johnson says the spread of COVID-19 in Manchester is  grave  and he may  need to intervene  if new measures are not agreed. 255 
 17 October – 
 Protesters march through London to demonstrate against the city's inclusion in tier 2 restrictions. 256 
 Manchester's restrictions status continues to be unclear as Mayor Andy Burnham rejects a statement from Downing Street that it has arranged talks for the following day. 257 
 The  DHSC  reveals that  police forces  across England are to be given access to  Test and Trace  data in circumstances where an individual with a positive result has been told to self-isolate and there is evidence of non-compliance  without reasonable justification . 258 
 18 October – 
 Mayor of Greater Manchester Andy Burnham accuses Boris Johnson of exaggerating the risk of COVID-19 in the area in order to persuade local politicians to agree to go into tier 3 restrictions, and writes a letter to the leaders of the UK's major political parties calling for a Parliamentary debate on the proposals. Cabinet Office Minister  Michael Gove  warns that restrictions may be imposed if an agreement cannot be reached. 259 260 
 Volunteer co-ordinator and trustee, Mezmin Malida, is featured in a  Guardian  article on how  Locked-down Leicester  feels forgotten. 261 
 19 October – Communities Secretary  Robert Jenrick  confirms that political leaders in Manchester have until midday the following day to reach a decision with the government on enter into tier 3 restrictions. 262 
 20 October – 
 Prime Minister  Boris Johnson  confirms that Greater Manchester will move to level 3 COVID restrictions from Friday 23 October after failure to reach a deal with local leaders. 263  In response, Andy Burnham says Greater Manchester will face a  punishing  winter. 264 
 School attendance figures show that at least half of secondary schools in England sent one or more pupils home because of COVID-19 during the previous week. 265 
 Sadiq Khan , the Mayor of London, calls for the 10pm curfew to be scrapped in London to allow bars and restaurants to deal with the tier 2 restrictions. 266 
 21 October – 
 Dan Jarvis  the Mayor of the  Sheffield City Region , announces that  South Yorkshire  will go into tier 3 restrictions from Saturday 24 October. 267 
 Prime Minister Boris Johnson announces  60m of funding for Greater Manchester to help it deal with tier 3 restrictions. 268 
 MPs vote 322–261 to reject a parliamentary motion to provide free school meals to children during holidays until Easter 2021. 269 
 22 October - 
 Coventry, Stoke-on-Trent and Slough are to move to tier 2 restrictions from Saturday, 24 October 2020, due to surging infection rates with people over the age of 60, in particular, being among the cases. 270 
 Manchester's  Nightingale hospital  will reopen from the week commencing 26 October in readiness of the area moving into tier 3 restrictions. 271 
 Ministers are accused of making decisions favouring London with COVID-19 support, as  Rishi Sunak  announces a financial package worth billions. Mayor of Greater Manchester,  Andy Burnham , points out that the new support is largely similar to what he requested prior to talks breaking down. 272 
 At a Downing Street press conference, Prime Minister Boris Johnson says he shares  people's frustration  with the turnaround times for the track and trace service, and that the system must improve. 273 
 23 October – 
 The coronavirus  fatality rate  in England increases for the first time since the apex of April 2020. 274 
 A spokesman for Boris Johnson says the Prime Minister is  hopeful  that  some aspects of our lives  could be  back to normal  by Christmas. 275 
 As the half-term break begins, a number of councils and local businesses around England are offering to provide free meals for schoolchildren during the holiday. 276 
 A forthcoming rugby union match between  England  and the  Barbarians  at  Twickenham , scheduled for 25 October, is called off after 12 Barbarians players are stood down for breaking COVID rules. 277 
 Warrington Borough Council  announces that  Warrington  in  Cheshire  will go into tier 3 restrictions, with tighter measures scheduled to begin on Thursday 29 October. 278 
 24 October – 
 As South Yorkshire enters tier 3 restrictions, Sheffield City Region mayor Dan Jarvis urges the UK government to  define precisely what the exit criteria is  from tier 3. 279 
 Professor Neil Ferguson, a former member of the government's  Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies , says that some school years may need to close in order to control the virus. 280 
 Eighteen people are arrested at an anti-lockdown protest in central London. 281 
 Headteachers at some schools in England report that access to free government provided laptops for pupils has been cut. 282 
 Gloucestershire Police  say that during Wales's 17-day lockdown, they will stop people crossing the border from Wales who they suspect are not making an essential journey and advise them to turn back. Those who refuse will have their details passed to police in Wales who can then issue fines. 283 
 25 October – 
 Following criticism of  Test and Trace , the mandatory 14-day quarantine for contacts of people who receive a positive test for COVID-19 may be reduced to 10 days, or even 1 week. 284 
 A  BMA  survey of 6,610 physicians reveals that 37  hold the view that the recently implemented  tier system  in England will be an ineffectual measure. 285 
 26 October – 
 Prime Minister Boris Johnson rejects mounting calls to reverse the government's decision not to fund free school meals over the half-term holidays. 286 
 Nottingham is to move into tier 3 restrictions on Thursday, 29 October. 287 
 With eight million people in England set to be living under tier 3 restrictions by the end of the week, a group of Conservative MPs representing constituencies in the north of England write to the Prime Minister demanding a  clear road-map  out of lockdown. 288 
 27 October – 
 Warrington  enters tier 3 restrictions, the alert level described as  very high , due to rising COVID-19 infection rates. 289 
 COVID-19 tests that provide a result within an hour are being piloted at universities in England in order to allow students to return home for Christmas. 290 
 Hospitals in  Leeds  cancel non-essential operations as the number of COVID-19 patients in the city rises above levels seen earlier in the year. 291 
 Dudley  and  Staffordshire  are announced as the latest areas to enter  tier 2 regulations , though a date for them to do so is not confirmed. 292 293 294 
 28 October – 
 It is confirmed that  Nottinghamshire  will enter tier 3 restrictions from Friday 30 October, with auction houses, car boot sales, betting shops, saunas and tattoo parlours required to close. Alcohol cannot be served in shops after 9pm, but can be sold  in hospitality venues where accompanying a  substantial meal  until 10pm. 295 
 A loophole in the law causes confusion as to whether alcohol can be served in social clubs in areas under tier 3 restrictions. 296 
 Opposition parties call for COVID rules to be the same across all four nations for the Christmas period, in response to which Environment Secretary  George Eustice  says  It's too early to say  what rules will be in place then. 297 
 29 October – 
 It is confirmed that  Oxford  is to be placed into tier 2 restrictions from Saturday 31 October after cases there rose to 134.5 in every 100,000 for the week ending 23 October, 298  and that  West Yorkshire  will be placed into tier 3 restrictions from Monday 2 November. 299 
 More than 10  of London hospital beds are in use with COVID-19 patients as the NHS comes under pressure due to a second wave. 300 
 Delia Smith , a celebrity chef and director of  Norwich City , writes to Prime Minister Boris Johnson urging him to allow fans to return to football stadiums, citing concern that smaller clubs could be at risk of closure without the return of supporters. 301 
 30 October – 
 Nottinghamshire moves into tier 3 restrictions. The move is distinctive from most other areas subject to tier 3 restrictions since betting shops, nail salons, tattoo parlour and saunas are required to close. 302 
 Foreign Secretary  Dominic Raab  tells the  BBC Radio 4   Today  programme  the UK government is  striving  to avoid  blanket  COVID measures, which he says would not be in the best interests of the country. 303 
 The Times  reports that Prime Minister Boris Johnson will announce a nationwide lockdown for England on Monday 2 November, with the restrictions coming into force as early as Wednesday 4 November and lasting until December. 304 
 31 October – 
 Business leaders criticise plans for a second lockdown in England, citing the  immense  damage it will do to businesses. 305 
 After scientists project that there could be several thousand COVID deaths a day, Prime Minister Boris Johnson announces a second month-long lockdown for England, from Thursday 5 November to Wednesday 2 December, in order to prevent what he describes as a   medical and moral disaster  for the NHS. England will then revert to the tier system. 306 307  The announcement was brought forward by two days (from Monday to Saturday) after leaks to media the previous day  a Sky News report later found a noticeable increase in people making journeys in the five days between the announcement and the start of the new restrictions. 308 
 Unlike the first lockdown, schools, universities, manufacturing businesses and construction sites will remain open. 309  The  English Premier League  and other elite sports can also continue behind closed doors during the four week lockdown, it is confirmed. 310 
November 2020 
 1 November – 
 Cabinet Office Minister  Michael Gove  confirms the four-week England lockdown could be extended beyond 2 December. 311 
 Professor Sir  Mark Walport , a member of the government's SAGE advisors, suggests the virus is  unlikely to be completely controlled  by 2 December. 312 
 Boris Johnson faces a potential rebellion from some of his backbench MPs angry at lockdown measures they describe as  disastrous  to the economy, with Sir  Graham Brady , chairman of the  1922 Committee , suggesting up to 80  Conservative  MPs may vote against the measures when they are debated in Parliament. 313 
 Transport for London  secures a  1.8bn government bailout to keep bus and tube services running until March 2021. 314 
 Religious groups criticise the new lockdown rules that ban communal worship. 315 
 Mayors in some of England's COVID-19 hotspots, including  Andy Burnham  of  Greater Manchester , call for schools and colleges to be closed during the month-long lockdown. 316 
 Tennis and golf officials urge the government to make their sports exempt from the new lockdown rules amid concerns they are on the brink of collapse. 317 
 2 November – 
 Boris Johnson tells the  House of Commons  the UK faces a  medical and moral disaster  without the planned month-long lockdown for England, but that it will end  without a shred of doubt  on 2 December. 318 
 Chancellor  Rishi Sunak  announces that self-employed people will be able to claim 80  of their earnings during the lockdown period. 319 
 Universities advise students not to move home during the lockdown, even if their courses are switched to being taught online. 320 
 3 November – 
 The  Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) (No. 4) Regulations 2020  are  laid on the table  in parliament, to come into effect for 28 days beginning on 5 November. 321 
 Liverpool is to pilot a regular COVID-19 rapid testing trial with logistic support from around 2,000 military personnel. 322 
 Defending impending lockdown restrictions, England's Chief Medical Officer Dr  Chris Whitty  says that  economically and socially destructive  lockdowns are the only practical option until a vaccine and drugs are found to treat COVID-19. 323 
 A software defect in the Test and Trace scheme has led to more than 7,200 people in England being told to stop self-isolating on the wrong date. 324 
 Retailers, including  Currys PC World  and  John Lewis , stay open later in the days preceding lockdown to cope with increased customer demand. 325 
 4 November – 
 MPs vote 516–39 to support the four-week lockdown restrictions for England, with 34 Conservative MPs among those to vote against the measures, while a further 19 Conservatives abstain from voting. 326 
 The NHS in England is put on the highest alert level. 327 
 New guidelines are issued for care homes allowing visitors. 328 
 For the first time,  NHS Test and Trace  makes COVID-19 tests available for  GPs  to use at their discretion, for symptomatic patients, symptomatic staff and their symptomatic household members. 329 
 5 November – 
 As England's second lockdown begins, the  UK Statistics Authority  criticises the government over the way it presented data estimating potential COVID deaths to justify the measures at the 31 October Downing Street press conference, and calls for greater transparency of data and the way projections are made. 330 
 At a Downing Street press conference, Boris Johnson says the four week lockdown should be enough to make a  real impact  on the virus. 331 
 The  University of Manchester  apologises after large metal fences were erected around halls of residence on its  Fallowfield Campus  without warning. The fences are removed again following protests from several hundred students. 332 
 Police break up an anti-lockdown protest in central London as 104 are arrested. 333 334 
 Foreign Secretary  Dominic Raab  is reported to be self-isolating after coming into contact with a person who had tested positive for COVID-19. 335 
 6 November – The first trial of city-wide COVID testing gets underway in Liverpool. 336 
 7 November – 
 The number of testing sites in Liverpool is doubled after 12,000 people are tested at six sites on the first day of the trial. 337 
 Non-urgent operations are suspended at hospitals in Greater Manchester. 338 
 9 November - 
 The organisers of a Manchester anti-lockdown demonstration involving 600 people are issued with a  10,000 fine. 339 
 10 November – 
 COVID mass testing is to be rolled out to a further 67 areas of England, Health Secretary Matt Hancock announces, including Nottinghamshire, Yorkshire and parts of the West Midlands. 340 
 A report from  Ofsted  says the COVID crisis has led to a slipping back of learning skills for most children in England, while some have forgotten social skills, such as how to use a knife and fork. 341 
 11 November – 
 An  Evacuation -style operation to get students home safely for Christmas is announced. They will be offered rapid COVID tests, and allocated travel dates in a  student travel window  between 3–9 December. 342 
 A study by the  Northern Health Science Alliance  says northern England has been hit worse by the COVID crisis,  exacerbating  regional inequalities. 343 
 12 November – The number of people waiting for hospital treatment in England for over a year has hit its highest level since 2008, with 140,000 having waited more than 12 months. 344 
 13 November – 
 Around 90,000 COVID tests have been carried out in Liverpool during the first week of mass testing in the city. 345 
 Research conducted by the  University of Nottingham  has found that rapid COVID testing in care homes is as effective as tests carried out in hospitals, prompting researchers to suggest mass testing for care homes would be a  game changer  for residents and their families. 346 
 14 November – 
 Professor  Susan Michie , a government scientific adviser, says the next two weeks will be  absolutely crucial  if England's second lockdown is to be lifted on 2 December, and warns people not to be complacent. 347 
 Fourteen people are arrested at an anti-lockdown protest in Bristol, 348  and sixteen at a demonstration in Liverpool. 349 
 Scarborough Council  asks people to stay away from the coastal town as COVID rates increase to 565.5 per 100,000. 350 
 15 November – The Metropolitan Police allow a baptism involving 30 people to go ahead at an  Islington  church in spite of lockdown regulations prohibiting such gatherings. Two police vans attend the baptism, with officers preventing further people from entering the church, but fifteen people already inside are allowed to continue, while a further fifteen attend an outdoor service. 351 352 
 16 November – 
 Dr  Susan Hopkins  of  Public Health England  suggests the regional COVID tier system may need to be  strengthened  to get the country  through the winter . 353 
 Mass testing in Liverpool has discovered 700 COVID cases where those testing positive had no symptoms,  Public Health England  has announced. 354 
 Council leaders in  Hull  write to the Prime Minister to ask for urgent action as COVID cases rise to 770 in 100,000. 355 
 Andy Marsh, the Chief Constable of  Avon and Somerset Police , criticises anti-lockdown marchers who gathered in Bristol over the preceding weekend as  selfish idiots  and  an embarrassment to Bristol . 356 
 17 November – 
 From 4am, travel rules are relaxed for people arriving in England to work on poultry farms to ensure there is enough turkey available for Christmas. 357 
 Ministers are reported to be looking at toughening the tier system for England when the second lockdown ends on 2 December. 358 
 The UK government changes the way it records COVID data for England, resulting in an increase in cases for some areas. The changes involve people, such as students, who have moved location, but whose cases were still being recorded at their home address. Consequently, areas such as Newcastle, York and Lincoln have seen a dramatic increase in case numbers, with those in Newcastle increasing by a quarter. 359 
 Sources, including BBC News, report the UK government is looking at allowing spectators to return to sports venues in some parts of England as early as Christmas. 360 
 London Heathrow receives the first transatlantic flight where everyone on board had tested negative for  coronavirus  prior to boarding at  Newark airport , New York. 361 
 18 November – 
 Research has indicated that one in five of London's black cabs has been taken out of service since June due to a slump in demand for their use because of the COVID crisis. 362 
 Baroness  Dido Harding , the head of  NHS Test and Trace , is self-isolating after receiving an alert that she had been in contact with a person who has tested positive for COVID. 363 
 20 November – A BBC investigation has found that  NHS Test and Trace  is reaching as little as half of those identified as close contacts in some areas. 364 
 21 November – 
 Downing Street confirms plans to introduce a tougher three-tier system of COVID restrictions for England when the lockdown ends on 2 December. 365 
 Sources, including BBC News, report that Chancellor Rishi Sunak is to announce a  500m package to support mental health services in England, which have been in greater demand because of the COVID crisis. 366 
 Dozens of arrests are made after hundreds attend anti-lockdown protest in Liverpool, and other parts of England. 367 368 
 23 November – 
 Prime Minister  Boris Johnson  confirms that  England's three-tier system of COVID regulations  will return once the lockdown expires on 2 December, but with toughened measures for each area. Gyms and non-essential shops will reopen throughout England, while collective worship and weddings will be allowed again, as well as some spectator sport. The tier status of each region will be reviewed every 14 days, with the regional approach scheduled to last until March 2021. 369 
 Up to 4,000 spectators will be allowed at outdoor sporting events from 2 December in the lowest tier areas, with 2,000 allowed in tier 2 areas. 370 
 Students are to be urged to take two COVID-19 tests three days apart before travelling home, it is announced. But tests will be voluntary, and will not be on offer at all universities. 371 
 24 November – 
 Transport Secretary  Grant Shapps  announces that travellers arriving in England from 15 December can reduce their quarantine period by paying for a COVID test after five days. 372 
 Figures have shown that one in five secondary pupils in England has missed schooling in the past week due to disruption caused by COVID-19. 373 
 26 November – 
 England's new  tier system  is announced, coming into force on 2 December. Most of the country, including London and Liverpool, is put into tier 2, while large parts of the Midlands, North East and North West, including Greater Manchester and Birmingham, are put into tier 3. Only the Isle of Wight, Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly are placed into tier 1. 374 
 Data for 19–21 November shows that cases are falling in every part of England. 375 
 27 November – 
 Health officials have warned that plans for mass testing in England threaten to be a distraction to other priorities, such as the rollout of a vaccine. 376 
 A laboratory error leads to hundreds of people wrongly being told they have tested positive for COVID-19 by  NHS Test and Trace . 377 
 28 November – 
 Writing in  The Times , Cabinet Office Minister  Michael Gove  warns backbench Conservative MPs planning to vote against the new tier system for England that without the measures hospitals throughout the country will become overwhelmed with COVID cases. 378 
 More than 150 people are arrested at an anti-lockdown protest in London's West End organised by Save Our Rights UK. 379 
 29 November – 
 Foreign Secretary  Dominic Raab  says that England's new tier system is needed in order to avoid a third wave of COVID-19. 380 
 The UK government issues new rules for Christmas permitting door-to-door carol singing and the opening of Santa's Grottos in all tiers, but people in tier 3 will not be able to attend a school Nativity play and will instead have to watch it via livestream or as a recording. 381 
 30 November – 
 Health Secretary Matt Hancock announces that the lockdown measures in England have helped to bring COVID-19 under control again, with cases having reduced by around 30  during the preceding week, but warns that vigilance is still needed. 382 
 In a bid to persuade backbench MPs to support the new tier regulations for England, the UK government publishes data behind its decision to introduce the measures, stating that it seeks to  balance the many complex impacts  of restrictions and keep them in place  for as short a time as possible , but that allowing COVID to spread  would lead to impacts...considered intolerable for society . In response, senior Conservative MP  Mark Harper  claims the  wheels are coming off the government's arguments . 383 
 The UK government announces a further expansion of community testing in England. 384 
 Housing Minister  Robert Jenrick  announces a temporary waiver of planning restrictions on Monday–Saturday shopping hours during December and January. 385 
 Environment Secretary  George Eustice  attracts  media attention after suggesting pubgoers in the new tier 2 could order a scotch egg with their drink, which would count as a substantial meal. 386 
 Singer  Rita Ora  apologises after breaching lockdown rules to celebrate her 30th birthday at a London restaurant. 387 
December 2020 
 A sign seen in Manchester in December, 2020 1 December – 
 MPs vote 291–78 in favour of introducing England's tough new COVID tier system, with 55 backbench Conservatives voting against the government, while another 16 abstain. 388 
 The UK government announces that relatives of people in care homes in England can visit if they receive a negative COVID-19 test. 389 
 Prime Minister  Boris Johnson  announces that pubs forced to close under the new tier system because they do not serve food will be given  1,000 compensation. 390 
 Stratford-on-Avon District Council  will seek a judicial review into the government's decision to place it into tier 3 of the new COVID restrictions. 391 
 2 December – 
 England's second lockdown ends at 12.01am, and the second tier system is adopted. Gyms, hairdressers and non-essential shops are allowed to reopen. 392 
 Students in England will have a staggered return to university over five weeks after the Christmas holidays in order to reduce COVID transmission. 393 
 Fans are allowed to return to  English Football League  grounds for the first time since March, with spectators attending six venues. Up to 1,000 fans are allowed into Luton and Wycombe, while Carlisle, Charlton, Shrewsbury and Cambridge are allowed to admit 2,000. 394 
 People queue outside a butcher due to COVID-19 restrictions 4 December – 
 Figures from the Office for National Statistics indicate COVID-19 rates are falling in every part of England apart from the North East, with 1 in 105 people having the virus in the week up to 28 November, down from 1 in 85 the week before. 395 
 Councils in Greater Manchester pause rapid COVID testing for care home visitors amid concerns they do not detect enough cases. 396 
 The  Lancashire FA  suspends grassroots football in parts of the county until January following talks with local health officials. 397 
 5 December – 
 GP surgeries will receive supplies of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine on 14 December, and have been told to have vaccination centres staffed and ready to deliver the vaccine within three and a half days of that date. 398 
 Following criticism that the mass COVID testing introduced to tier 3 areas may not be accurate, Dr  Susan Hopkins , chief medical adviser to  NHS Test and Trace , defends the tests, saying they could identify many cases of infection in people without symptoms. 399 
 A Christmas market has opened in Nottingham despite concerns from some residents it could lead to a rise in COVID cases. The Nottingham Winter Wonderland was given the go-ahead by Nottingham City Council after organisers said it was safe. 400 
 The first weekend following the end of lockdown sees an influx of shoppers to high streets as stores hold pre-Christmas sales. 401  In London, police are called to  Harrod's  to deal with a large crowd gathered outside the store  four arrests are made. 402 
 6 December – 
 Although weekend shopping has returned, figures are reported to be down on 2019. 403 
 Nottingham's Christmas market is closed a day after it opened amid concerns it could promote the spread of COVID-19. 404 
 Following criticism of its decision to suspend grassroots football in parts of Lancashire the day before fixtures were scheduled to go ahead, the Lancashire FA defends its eleventh hour decision, saying it communicated the decision as soon as was possible and that its priority is to  protect the community  over Christmas. 405 
 7 December – England's cricket tour of South Africa is abandoned after two members of the team receive positive COVID tests. 406 
 8 December – Health Secretary  Matt Hancock  urges Londoners to adhere to COVID-19 regulations as cases rise in London. 407 
 9 December – Experts have called for London to be placed into tier 3 COVID restrictions to avoid a spike in cases over Christmas after figures indicated a spike in cases in London on 2 December. 408 
 10 December – 
 Health Secretary  Matt Hancock  announces that mass testing will be rolled out for secondary schools in the worst affected areas of London, Kent and Essex. 409 
 Figures from NHS England show the number of patients in England waiting over a year for routine hospital care is now 100 times higher than before the pandemic. 410 
 11 December – 
 Figures from the Office for National Statistics for the week ending 5 December indicate COVID cases in England are continuing to fall, apart from in London and the East of England. 411 
 Andy Burnham , the  Mayor of Greater Manchester , expresses his anger after minutes are released of a  SAGE  from the summer in which they urged the government to provide more COVID funding for the area. 412 
 12 December – 
 In a letter to Prime Minister Boris Johnson,  NHS Providers , the body representing hospital trusts in England, warns that relaxing the COVID tier system could result in a third wave of the virus at the busiest time of year for hospitals. 413 
 Mass testing is to be rolled out to 67 tier 3 areas beginning on Monday 14 December. 414 
 Thousands of Christmas shoppers descend on central London following warnings from  Sadiq Khan , the Mayor of London, and the police that people should respect COVID regulations. 415 
 14 December – 
 The self-isolation period for contacts of people with confirmed COVID-19 is shortened from 14 days to 10 days, and the same change applies to those returning travellers who are required to go into quarantine. 416 
 Health Secretary Matt Hancock announces that London, most of Essex and parts of Hertfordshire will move to tier 3 restrictions from Wednesday 16 December following an increase in COVID cases in the south east and the identification of a new strain of the virus that spreads much quicker. 417 
 After  Greenwich Council  writes to headteachers asking them to move classes online amid rising COVID cases, Education Secretary  Gavin Williamson  orders the authority to keep schools open or face legal action. 418  Greenwich Council reverses its decision the following day. 419 
 15 December – 
 Mass testing of secondary school pupils will be greatly increased in January with the objective of sending fewer people home. Pupils who come into contact with someone testing positive for COVID-19 will be offered seven days of tests, while teachers will have weekly tests. 420 
 The  Test to Release  scheme begins in England, allowing travellers to pay privately for a COVID test five days after arrival, and end their quarantine period if they receive a negative test. But the launch is chaotic as the eleven private firms chosen by the government to administer the tests have teething problems. 421 
 16 December 
 London, and parts of Essex and Hertfordshire, are placed into tier three of England's  COVID tier system  following an increase in case numbers in those areas. 422 
 17 December – 
 Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire and Hertfordshire, as well as parts of Surrey, East Sussex, Cambridgeshire and Hampshire are to be moved from tier two to tier three from Saturday 19 December, while Bristol and North Somerset will move from tier three to tier two. Herefordshire will be moved from tier two to tier one. 423 
 Secondary schools in England will have a staggered return in January 2021 as a mass COVID testing programme is introduced  exam pupils will return immediately, with other students facing the prospect of online lessons for the first week. 424 
 18 December – 
 Prime Minister Boris Johnson says that he hopes to avoid another national lockdown for England, but admits COVID cases have risen  very much . 425 
 It is reported that nearly 90  of hospital beds in England are full and that health trusts face the prospect of suspending non-COVID treatment. 426 
 Nicola Mason, a head teacher from Staffordshire, speaks out about how school staff feel  broken  by last minute demands for them to run testing schemes in secondary schools. 427 
 19 December – 
 Prime Minister  Boris Johnson  announces that London, South East and East of England are to go into new Tier 4 restrictions from the following day. The rules are mostly the same as the national restrictions in November, with non-essential retail, hairdressers and gyms closing. 428 429 
 Plans for Christmas bubbles are scrapped completely in Tier 4, while in the rest of England and Wales Christmas bubbles are limited to meeting up on Christmas Day. 430 
 Anti-lockdown protests are held in cities across the country, with police making 27 arrests at a protest in London. 431 
 20 December – 
 Health Secretary Matt Hancock has claimed that the November lockdown did not work, and cannot say when Tier 4 restrictions will be lifted. 432 
 Metropolitan Police Federation boss  Ken Marsh  says the new Tier 4 rules do not  make sense  and that police will not  be knocking on people's doors on Christmas Day  to check whether they are being observed. 433 
 Travel operator  Tui  suspends flights from  Luton Airport  because it is in the new Tier 4 area. 434 
 The  Indian Queens Half Marathon  is held in Cornwall with around 250 participants. Concern is later expressed that all competitors were allowed to start together rather than being staggered to enable better social distancing. 435 
 21 December – 
 Sir  Patrick Vallance , the UK's chief scientific adviser, suggests that more areas of England will need to go into Tier 4 restrictions to combat the new variant of COVID-19. 436 
 Health officials in the West Midlands and North West advise anyone travelling from Tier 4 areas of England or from Wales they must self-isolate for ten days in order to help stop the spread of the new variant of COVID. 437 
 23 December – Health Secretary Matt Hancock announces that Sussex, Oxfordshire, Suffolk, Norfolk, Cambridgeshire, Hampshire (except the New Forest) and parts of Essex and Surrey still in tier three are to be moved to tier four restrictions from Boxing Day. Many other areas will move up a tier to tiers two and three. 438 
 24 December – 
 Researchers at the  London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine  have suggested schools and universities may need to remain closed after Christmas to help control the spread of the new variant of COVID, as well as tier four restrictions. 439 
 Figures released by the Office for National Statistics indicate 1 in 85 people in England has COVID, with Figures for the week to 18 December estimating that almost 650,000 people had the virus, up from 570,000 the previous week. 440 
 25 December – Residents at a care home in Leeds are allowed to meet and embrace relatives for the first time since March following a rapid COVID test trial at the home. 441 
 26 December – Tier four restrictions are extended in England after rules are briefly relaxed for Christmas Day. 442 
 27 December – 
 Police break up an illegal rave attended by 100 people in the  Shudehill  area of Manchester. 443 
 Government officials have scheduled a meeting for the next day to decide whether to go ahead with the planned reopening of schools in England in January. 444 
 The  London Ambulance Service  is reported to have received as many emergency calls on Boxing Day as it did at the height of the pandemic in April. 445 
 28 December – 
 Health officials express concern for the pressure on the health service in England, where 20,426 people are being treated in hospital for COVID, an increase from around 19,000 during the previous peak in April. 446 
 Cabinet Office Minister  Michael Gove  says he is confident the staggered return of secondary schools can happen in January. 447 
 29 December – 
 An article in the  Health Service Journal  has claimed that COVID patients in London could be transferred to hospitals in Yorkshire because of strains on capacity in London. 448 
 It is reported that COVID patients are being treated in ambulances outside hospitals in north east London as pressure grows on health trusts in London. 449 
 A group of ten people are fined for breach of COVID restrictions after being caught playing  dominoes  in a restaurant in  Whitechapel , east London. 450 
 30 December – 
 Tier four measures are extended to more parts of England from midnight, with the Midlands, North East, parts of the North West and South West joining London and the South East in the toughest restrictions. 451 
 Secondary schools in much of England will fully return two weeks later than originally anticipated, with exam year pupils returning on 11 January, followed by the rest of the years on 18 January. 452 
 31 December – 
 As more areas of England enter  tier four restrictions , a total of 44 million people are now living under the toughest measures. 453 
 Education Secretary Gain Williamson says he wants the delayed start of the next school term to be as  short as possible . 454 
 The  NHS Nightingale London  hospital is reactivated and placed on standby ready to receive patients. 455 
 The  Royal London Hospital  is in  disaster medicine mode  and  no longer providing high standard critical care , according to an internal memo. 456 
 It is reported that GPs will be paid  10 for each care home patient who is vaccinated against COVID-19. 457