
Timeline
 
January
 Eight Chinese nationals were quarantined at a hotel in  Johor Bahru  on 24 January after coming into contact with an  infected person  in neighbouring  Singapore .  Despite early reports of them testing negative for the virus,  three of them were confirmed to be infected on 25 January and subsequently quarantined at the  Sungai Buloh Hospital  in Selangor.  The  Malaysian health ministry  published guidelines on the virus and established designated hospitals in each of  Malaysia's states  to manage any positive cases.  The Malaysian public were reminded by local authorities to take precautionary measures in the wake of the virus threat with those travelling to China have been advised to stay away from animal farms and markets in the country and to not eat raw or semi-cooked meats.  Following several earlier suspected cases in  Sabah 's capital of  Kota Kinabalu , all direct flights between the state with China were stopped indefinitely. On 24 January, a two-year-old child who was suspected to have been infected was detained along with their parents. The parents refused quarantine and were detained the next day by police at  Senai International Airport  before returning to China.  The patient including others who refused quarantine were subsequently placed under close monitoring by the local Health Ministry.  On 26 January, a fourth case of the virus, unconnected to previous cases, was detected.  A suspected case was also detected in the state of  Kedah 's  island of Langkawi  involving two female Chinese nationals with both victims quarantined at the Sultanah Maliha Hospital  one later confirmed positive on 29 January.  With the increasing number of cases reported in neighbouring  Thailand , both the state of Kedah and  Penang  tightened their borders by conducting stringent checks at its international entry points.  A Chinese female national in  Bintulu  of  Sarawak  also suspected of having contracted the virus led to the state tightening its border and postponing direct flights to  Hainan , despite a recently signed  memorandum of understanding  (MoU) establishing direct flights with Sarawak. Of the total of 25 Chinese nationals in Sabah earlier suspected of having contracted the virus, most of them tested negative as of 28 January although one of them later tested positive for the virus upon reaching China.  Another eight suspected cases were recorded in Sarawak on 29 January  five in  Kuching  and one each in  Sibu ,  Bintulu  and  Miri .  Of the total eight suspected cases in the state, six have tested negative.  Within the same day, three additional positive cases were confirmed in  West Malaysia , involving a four-year-old child quarantined at the Sultanah Maliha Hospital in  Kedah , a 52-year-old man at  Sultanah Aminah Hospital  in Johor and a woman at  Sungai Buloh Hospital  in Selangor.  An eighth case was reported at the Permai Hospital in Johor on the next day. 
February
 Temporary travel restrictions into Malaysia on 13 February 2020, particularly to the states of  Sabah  and  Sarawak  as released by  Malaysia Airlines . On 4 February, Malaysia reported two new cases, including a 41-year-old local male, which was the first case involving a Malaysian. The case patient had a recent trip to Singapore and is quarantined in Sungai Buloh Hospital. The other case involved a 63-year-old male from China.  That same day, a Chinese girl recovered from COVID-19 and was discharged from hospital. On 5 February, two Malaysian evacuees from Wuhan tested positive for COVID-19, bringing the total number of cases in the country to 12. On 6 February, Malaysia reported its first local transmission, the younger sister of the 41-year-old Malaysian who tested positive for COVID-19 on 4 February. She was warded at Sultanah Bahiyah Hospital in  Alor Setar . A positive case involving a 37-year-old woman from Wuhan, who had arrived in Malaysia on 25 January, was reported on the same day. On 7 February, one new case was reported, bringing the total number to 15. On 8 February, 11 new patients were admitted to  Sibu Hospital ,  Miri Hospital  and the  Sarawak General Hospital  in  Kuching . The following day, the Sarawak Health Department established a hotline in response to the virus outbreak.  That same day, the total number of cases reached 16.  In addition, the total number of recoveries reached two. On 9 February, one new case was reported, bringing the total number of cases to 17.  One recovery was reported, bringing the total number of recoveries to three. On 10 February, the Sarawak Disaster Management Committee prohibited entry by Singaporeans due to a major increase of positive cases in the neighbouring country.  That same day, the total number of cases rose to 18. The latest case was a Malaysian citizen who had recently traveled to China. On 13 February, one new case was reported, bringing the total number to 13. The new case was a 39-year old woman from China. On 15 February, three new cases were reported, bringing the total number to 22. Four new recoveries were reported, bringing the total number of recoveries to seven.  That same day, an elderly American woman, who was among hundreds of passengers who disembarked from the  MS 160 Westerdam  cruise ship in  Cambodia  and flew to Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia, was identified as Malaysia's 22nd confirmed case.  Meanwhile, the remaining 143 passengers, including a further six passengers from the same flight with the woman, had been declared free from the virus and were allowed to return into their respective countries. On 16 February, one recovery was reported, bringing the total number of recoveries to eight.  That same day, the  Holland America Line  and  Cambodian health ministry  requested that Malaysian health authorities re-test the US citizen to ensure the accuracy of its findings.  The American woman tested positive for COVID-19 during the second test.  Following this second test confirmation, the Malaysian authorities announced that the remaining passengers of the  MS 160 Westerdam  would not be allowed to enter the country despite several flights being chartered by Holland America Line with  Malaysia Airlines . The cruise liner's passengers had not been able to depart from Cambodia since the country did not have any direct flights to Europe and the United States.  During a third check-up, the American woman tested negative for COVID-19.  In response, the Cambodian government questioned the accuracy of the Malaysian authorities' testing of the American woman, while claiming there were no diplomatic tensions between Cambodia and Malaysia over the testing of the American woman.  On 22 February, the Malaysian Health Ministry issued a statement that the America female patient was recovering after 72 hours of treatment. On 17 February, one new recovery was reported, bringing the total number of recoveries to nine. The individual was the first Malaysia who had tested positive for COVID-19. On 20 February, two new recoveries were reported, bringing the total number of COVID-19 patients in hospital down to five. On 26 February, 20 of Malaysia's 22 positive cases had recovered. Two remained in hospital.  That same day, a female Malaysian hospital worker in Sabah's  Kudat District  suspected of having contracted the virus was quarantined when she developed symptoms after returning from  South Korea .  Although she was later declared free from the virus,  the Malaysian government imposed a ban on travelers from South Korea in response to the  rise in positive cases  within that country. On 27 February, one new case was reported, bringing the total number to 23.  Two new recoveries were reported, bringing the total number of recoveries to 22. On 28 February, two new cases were reported, bringing the total number to 25. 
March
 .mw-parser-output .hatnote font-style:italic .mw-parser-output div.hatnote padding-left:1.6em margin-bottom:0.5em .mw-parser-output .hatnote i font-style:normal .mw-parser-output .hatnote link .hatnote margin-top:-0.5em See also:  2020 Tablighi Jamaat COVID-19 hotspot in Malaysia  and 